# Satisfiability Modulo Theories (SMT) Project

This repository contains the code for a Satisfiability Modulo Theories (SMT) project that solves instances of a circuit placement problem using python and the z3-solver library.

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Execute All Instances](#execute-all-instances)
  - [Execute a Single Instance](#execute-a-single-instance)
- [Folder Structure](#folder-structure)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction

This is a solver for the Circuit Placement Problem using the Satisfiability Modulo Theories (SMT) approach. The solver aims to optimize the placement of circuits on a rectangular plate while satisfying certain constraints.

## Requirements

Before running the solver, make sure you have the following installed on your system:
- Python 3.x: The solver is written in Python, so you need to have Python 3.x installed.
- Z3 Solver: The SMT approach uses the Z3 solver. You can install it via pip:
```console
pip install z3-solver
```

## Usage

### Execute All Instances

To execute all instances and generate solutions for the circuit placement problem, follow these steps:

1. Open a terminal or command prompt.
2. Navigate to the "SMT/src" directory:

```console
cd SMT/src
```

1. Run the "Solve_SMT.py" script with the required arguments:

```console
python Solve_SMT.py -i <instances_folder> -o <output_folder> -r -s <solver_name>

```
Optional Arguments:

* -i <instances_folder>: Path to the folder containing the input instances (default: "../instances").
* -o <output_folder>: Path to the folder where the output solutions will be saved (default: "../out").
* -r: Use this flag to enable model rotation (optional).
* -s <solver_name>: Name of the SMT model to use (default: "Z3").

## Folder Structure
The folder structure of the project is as follows:
```csharp
SMT/
  ├── instances/
  ├── out/
  │    ├── base/ 
  │    ├── plot/
  │    │     ├── base/
  │    │     └── rotation/
  │    ├── rotation/
  │    └── stats/
  │         ├── base/
  │         └── rotation/
  ├── src/
  │    ├── model_main.py
  │    ├── model_rotation.py
  │    └── Solve_SMT.py
  │
  └── README.md
```
* instances/: Contains input instances in the desired format.
* out/: Folder to store the output solutions generated by the solver.
* src/: Contains the models and Python scripts for solving the circuit placement problem.